# Contributing to Direct State Transfer (DST)

Want to contribute? That's great! Any contribution is welcome, e.g.
documentation, bug reports, feature request, issues, blog posts,
tutorials, feature implementations, etc. You can contribute code or
documentation through the standard GitHub pull request model. For large
contributions we do encourage you to file a ticket in the GitHub issue
tracking system prior to any development to coordinate with the DST
development team early in the process. Coordinating up front helps to
avoid frustration later on.

*Note that this repository only contains the documentation of DST. For
issues / pull requests related to source code please refer to the
[dst-go](https://github.com/direct-state-transfer/dst-go) repository.*

## Contribution Guideline

* We use the GitHub [issue
  tracker](https://github.com/direct-state-transfer/dst-doc/issues) and
  the [github-flow](http://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html)
  branching model for dst-doc.

* When you want to submit a patch to any DST project, you must [sign a
  CLA (once) and sign your commits](#sign-the-cla-and-sign-your-work).

* Your contribution must be licensed under the CC-BY-4.0 license, the
  license used by this project.

* When submitting a pull-request to the project, please note / ensure
  the following:
    1. Please follow these
       [guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) on how to
       write a good **commit** message. If available, please include the
       ticket number. And don't forget the
       [Signed-Off-By](#sign-the-cla-and-sign-your-work) line.
    2. Create a pull request against the master branch.

## Legal stuff

### Sign the CLA and sign your work

We believe that if successful the DST project should move to a neutral
home in the long run (e.g. to some not-for-profit foundation). To allow
us to retain the necessary open source licensing flexibility please
ensure you have signed the [Contributor License Agreement
(CLA)](https://cla-assistant.io/direct-state-transfer/dst-doc) before
creating any pull request. All contributors will retain ownership in
their contributions while granting us the necessary legal rights. The
CLA only needs to be signed once and it covers all [Direct State
Transfer](https://github.com/direct-state-transfer) repositories.

This project also tracks patch provenance and licensing using
Signed-off-by tags. With the sign-off in a commit message you certify
that you authored the patch or otherwise have the right to submit it
under the project's license and you acknowledge that the CLA signed for
any DST project also applies to this contribution. The procedure is
simple: just append a line

    Signed-off-by: Random J Developer <random@developer.example.org>

to every commit message using your real name or your pseudonym and a valid
email address.

If you have set your `user.name` and `user.email` git configs you can
automatically sign the commit by running the git-commit command with the
`-s` option.  There may be multiple sign-offs if more than one developer
was involved in authoring the contribution.

### Individual vs. Corporate Contributors

Often employers or academic institution have ownership over code that is
written in certain circumstances, so please do due diligence to ensure
that you have the right to submit the code.

If you are a developer who is authorized to contribute to DST on behalf
of your employer, then please use your corporate email address in the
Signed-off-by tag. Otherwise please use a personal email address.
